---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-12-09
labels:
  - E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
  
---

Assignment 2 consisted of attaching a log in page to the existing pages of assignment 1. My website “Shafkat’s Photo Gallery” is about displaying a photo exhibition with some of my best landscape photographs. In order to purchase a photograph a user has to login or register in my website. After purchase the user will be shown an invoice page and a “thank you” note. 

It was overall a good experience although I had trouble over viewing my invoice.html page. Due to some typos in the server.js page I spent one entire night troubleshooting to view the invoice page. I learned server-side processing and building a user data file which contained all the login and registration information of the existing and new users. Also, I gathered coding knowledge of attaching the “login.html” page with my display page with directions from the server page. 

I worked with a partner in order to ease the segments. My plan was to divide up different pages in between me and my group mate. The plan failed as I didn’t find any effort from the other side. I did approx. 90% of the work while he did the rest 10%. Building the structure of the pages was not a big deal as I imported it from assignment 1 with some minor editing. Troubleshooting to view my invoice page was the main challenge. He tried doing some things in the last minute which wasn’t enough. I wish I got some more attention from him to smoothen the process. To meet the deadline, I was working until the last minute where I felt he wasn’t doing the same. I gave him 10% percent for replying my texts and responding to my calls. 

I got help from my other classmates and from professor Kazman. Even though it was the day before the deadline, I went up to prof. Kazman and he showed me the steps of attaching file in the server.js file. My invoice file was named wrong in the server file which I found out through his instructions. Some parts were missing which I was overlooking the entire time and it was all about directing to the invoice page. 

The developing is similar to assignment 1 except I had to add a user_data.json file for the users. It was simple to put and most of it was shown in class by Prof. Dan Port. I was facing the same issue which I was facing in Assignment 01. I submitted an incomplete assignment 01 but with assignment 02 I was successful to finally display the invoice and able to submit it on time.

I spent 20% of my time to think what I want to do with this assignment. It was very simple to portray. Writing the code took 10% and finally testing and debugging took 70% of the overall time. As mentioned, I had a hard time to display my invoice page, debugging mostly took one whole day. Everything worked out very well except the debugging and testing part took longer as expected. 

If I went back in time, I would have given more time on it and gave a head start. Also, I should’ve visited my professors for external help. Their corrections might have given me more time to explore other sides. At the end the main thing is I was able to submit a functioning assignment successfully with the proper requirements. 


